       BACKGROUND: Whether children and people with asthma and allergic diseases are at 
      increased risk for severe acute respiratory syndrome virus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) 
      infection is unknown. OBJECTIVE: Our aims were to determine the incidence of 
      SARS-CoV-2 infection in households with children and to also determine whether 
      self-reported asthma and/or other allergic diseases are associated with infection 
      and household transmission. METHODS: For 6 months, biweekly nasal swabs and 
      weekly surveys were conducted within 1394 households (N = 4142 participants) to 
      identify incident SARS-CoV-2 infections from May 2020 to February 2021, which was 
      the pandemic period largely before a vaccine and before the emergence of 
      SARS-CoV-2 variants. Participant and household infection and household 
      transmission probabilities were calculated by using time-to-event analyses, and 
      factors associated with infection and transmission risk were determined by using 
      regression analyses. RESULTS: In all, 147 households (261 participants) tested 
      positive for SARS-CoV-2. The household SARS-CoV-2 infection probability was 
      25.8%; the participant infection probability was similar for children (14.0% [95% 
      CI = 8.0%-19.6%]), teenagers (12.1% [95% CI = 8.2%-15.9%]), and adults (14.0% 
      [95% CI = 9.5%-18.4%]). Infections were symptomatic in 24.5% of children, 41.2% 
      of teenagers, and 62.5% of adults. Self-reported doctor-diagnosed asthma was not 
      a risk factor for infection (adjusted hazard ratio [aHR] = 1.04 [95% CI = 
      0.73-1.46]), nor was upper respiratory allergy or eczema. Self-reported 
      doctor-diagnosed food allergy was associated with lower infection risk (aHR = 
      0.50 [95% CI = 0.32-0.81]); higher body mass index was associated with increased 
      infection risk (aHR per 10-point increase = 1.09 [95% CI = 1.03-1.15]). The 
      household secondary attack rate was 57.7%. Asthma was not associated with 
      household transmission, but transmission was lower in households with food 
      allergy (adjusted odds ratio = 0.43 [95% CI = 0.19-0.96]; P = .04). CONCLUSION: 
      Asthma does not increase the risk of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Food allergy is 
      associated with lower infection risk, whereas body mass index is associated with 
      increased infection risk. Understanding how these factors modify infection risk 
      may offer new avenues for preventing infection.

       BACKGROUND: Seasonal variation in respiratory illnesses and exacerbations in 
      pediatric populations with asthma is well described, though whether upper airway 
      microbes play season-specific roles in these events is unknown. OBJECTIVE: We 
      hypothesized that nasal microbiota composition is seasonally dynamic and that 
      discrete microbe-host interactions modify risk of asthma exacerbation in a 
      season-specific manner. METHODS: Repeated nasal samples from children with 
      exacerbation-prone asthma collected during periods of respiratory health 
      (baseline; n = 181 samples) or first captured respiratory illness (n = 97) across 
      all seasons, underwent bacterial (16S ribosomal RNA gene) and fungal (internal 
      transcribed spacer region 2) biomarker sequencing. Virus detection was performed 
      by multiplex PCR. Paired nasal transcriptome data were examined for seasonal 
      dynamics and integrative analyses. RESULTS: Upper airway bacterial and fungal 
      microbiota and rhinovirus detection exhibited significant seasonal dynamics. In 
      seasonally adjusted analysis, variation in both baseline and respiratory illness 
      microbiota related to subsequent exacerbation. Specifically, in the fall, when 
      respiratory illness and exacerbation events were most frequent, several Moraxella 
      and Haemophilus members were enriched both in virus-positive respiratory 
      illnesses and those that progressed to exacerbations. The abundance of 2 discrete 
      bacterial networks, characteristically comprising either Streptococcus or 
      Staphylococcus, exhibited opposing interactions with an exacerbation-associated 
      SMAD3 nasal epithelial transcriptional module to significantly increase the odds 
      of subsequent exacerbation (odds ratio = 14.7, 95% confidence interval = 
      1.50-144, P = .02; odds ratio = 39.17, 95% confidence interval = 2.44-626, P = 
      .008, respectively). CONCLUSIONS: Upper airway microbiomes covary with season and 
      with seasonal trends in respiratory illnesses and asthma exacerbations. 
      Seasonally adjusted analyses reveal specific bacteria-host interactions that 
      significantly increase risk of asthma exacerbation in these children.

       BACKGROUND: Characterization of allergic responses to cockroach (CR), a common 
      aeroallergen associated with asthma, has focused mainly on IgE reactivity, but 
      little is known about T cell responses, particularly in children. We conducted a 
      functional evaluation of CR allergen-specific T cell reactivity in a cohort of CR 
      allergic children with asthma. METHODS: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells 
      (PBMCs) were obtained from 71 children, with mild-to-moderate asthma who were 
      enrolled in a CR immunotherapy (IT) clinical trial, prior to treatment 
      initiation. PBMC were stimulated with peptide pools derived from 11 CR allergens, 
      and CD4+ T cell responses assessed by intracellular cytokine staining. RESULTS: 
      Highly heterogeneous responses in T cell reactivity were observed among 
      participants, both in terms of the magnitude of cytokine response and allergen 
      immunodominance. Reactivity against Bla g 9 and Bla g 5 was most frequent. The 
      phenotype of the T cell response was dominated by IL-4 production and a Th2 
      polarized profile in 54.9% of participants, but IFNγ production and Th1 
      polarization was observed in 25.3% of the participants. The numbers of regulatory 
      CD4+ T cells were also highly variable and the magnitude of effector responses 
      and Th2 polarization were positively correlated with serum IgE levels specific to 
      a clinical CR extract. CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that in children with 
      mild-to-moderate asthma, CR-specific T cell responses display a wide range of 
      magnitude, allergen dominance, and polarization. These results will enable 
      examination of whether any of the variables measured are affected by IT and/or 
      are predictive of clinical outcomes.

       T-regulatory cells (Tregs) play a key role in suppressing effector cells and 
      maintaining self-tolerance. Studies of younger adults and children suggest that 
      insufficient differentiation and functional defects of Tregs may contribute to 
      the development of asthma; however, data from older patients with asthma are 
      limited. To address the effects of aging on the relationship of Treg frequency 
      and function with clinical outcomes, we collected induced sputum (differential 
      cell count and Treg frequency) and peripheral blood (Treg function and frequency) 
      from aged (&gt; 60 years of age) and younger (20-40 years old) patients with asthma. 
      In younger patients, low Treg suppression was associated with significantly 
      higher mean numbers of emergency department (ED) (1.8 vs. 0.17, P = 0.02) and 
      urgent care visits (2.3 vs. 0.17, P = 0.01) for asthma, and decreased asthma 
      control (mean Asthma Control Test [ACT] score, 17 vs. 21.3, P = 0.01) compared to 
      those with high Treg suppression. In older patients, however, a lower Treg 
      function was not significantly associated with ACT scores (18.2 vs. 13.4, P = 
      0.10), or the number of ED (P = 0.9) or urgent care visits (P = 0.2). Our data 
      suggest that Tregs have a weak relationship with asthma control and clinical 
      asthma outcomes in older patients and differ from findings in younger patients, 
      where Tregs are more likely to play a protective role.

       BACKGROUND: A relationship between adiposity and asthma has been described in 
      some cohort studies, but little is known about trajectories of adiposity 
      throughout early childhood among children at high risk for developing asthma in 
      urban United States cities. Moreover, early life trajectories of adipokines that 
      have metabolic and immunologic properties have not been comprehensively 
      investigated. OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to characterize trajectories of 
      adiposity in a longitudinal birth cohort of predominately Black and Latinx 
      children (n = 418) using several different repeated measures including body mass 
      index (BMI) z score, bioimpedance analysis, leptin, and adiponectin in the first 
      10 years of life. METHODS: In a longitudinal birth cohort of predominately Black 
      and Latinx children, we used repeated annual measures of BMI, bioimpedance 
      analysis (ie, percentage of body fat), leptin, and adiponectin to create 
      trajectories across the first 10 years of life. Across those trajectories, we 
      compared asthma diagnosis and multiple lung function outcomes, including 
      spirometry, impulse oscillometry, and methacholine response. RESULTS: Three 
      trajectories were observed for BMI z score, bioimpedance analysis, and leptin and 
      2 for adiponectin. There was no association between trajectories of BMI, 
      percentage of body fat, leptin, or adipokine and asthma diagnosis or lung 
      function (P &gt; .05). CONCLUSIONS: Trajectories of adiposity were not associated 
      with asthma or lung function in children at high risk for developing asthma. Risk 
      factors related to geography as well as social and demographic factors unique to 
      specific populations could explain the lack of association and should be 
      considered in obesity and asthma studies.

       BACKGROUND: Black and Hispanic children growing up in disadvantaged urban 
      neighborhoods have the highest rates of asthma and related morbidity in the 
      United States. OBJECTIVES: This study sought to identify specific respiratory 
      phenotypes of health and disease in this population, associations with early life 
      exposures, and molecular patterns of gene expression in nasal epithelial cells 
      that underlie clinical disease. METHODS: The study population consisted of 442 
      high-risk urban children who had repeated assessments of wheezing, 
      allergen-specific IgE, and lung function through 10 years of age. Phenotypes were 
      identified by developing temporal trajectories for these data, and then compared 
      to early life exposures and patterns of nasal epithelial gene expression at 11 
      years of age. RESULTS: Of the 6 identified respiratory phenotypes, a high wheeze, 
      high atopy, low lung function group had the greatest respiratory morbidity. In 
      early life, this group had low exposure to common allergens and high exposure to 
      ergosterol in house dust. While all high-atopy groups were associated with 
      increased expression of a type-2 inflammation gene module in nasal epithelial 
      samples, an epithelium IL-13 response module tracked closely with impaired lung 
      function, and a MUC5AC hypersecretion module was uniquely upregulated in the high 
      wheeze, high atopy, low lung function group. In contrast, a medium wheeze, low 
      atopy group showed altered expression of modules of epithelial integrity, 
      epithelial injury, and antioxidant pathways. CONCLUSIONS: In the first decade of 
      life, high-risk urban children develop distinct phenotypes of respiratory health 
      versus disease that link early life environmental exposures to childhood allergic 
      sensitization and asthma. Moreover, unique patterns of airway gene expression 
      demonstrate how specific molecular pathways underlie distinct respiratory 
      phenotypes, including allergic and nonallergic asthma.

       BACKGROUND: Prenatal and early-life exposure to maternal stress and depression is 
      linked to development of recurrent wheezing in young children. OBJECTIVE: We 
      sought to determine whether maternal stress and depression in early life are 
      associated with nonatopic wheezing phenotype in urban children. METHODS: The 
      Urban Environment and Childhood Asthma Study examined a birth cohort of children 
      at high risk for asthma in low-income neighborhoods. Prenatal and postnatal 
      (through age 3 years) maternal stress and depression scores were compared with 
      respiratory phenotypes through age 10 years (multinomial regression), 
      self-reported colds (linear regression), and detection of respiratory viruses 
      (Poisson regression). RESULTS: Scores for maternal depression, and, to a lesser 
      extent, maternal perceived stress, were positively related to multiple wheezing 
      phenotypes. In particular, cumulative measures of maternal depression in the 
      first 3 years were related to the moderate-wheeze-low-atopy phenotype (odds 
      ratio, 1.13; [1.05, 1.21]; P &lt; .01). Considering indicators of respiratory health 
      that were used to identify the phenotypes, there were multiple positive 
      associations between early-life scores for maternal stress and depression and 
      increased wheezing illnesses, but no consistent relationships with lung function 
      and some inverse relationships with allergic sensitization. Cumulative maternal 
      stress and depression scores were associated with cumulative number of 
      respiratory illnesses through age 3 years. CONCLUSIONS: Among high-risk, urban 
      children, maternal stress and depression in early life were positively associated 
      with respiratory illnesses and a moderate-wheeze-low-atopy phenotype. These 
      results suggest that treating stress and depression in expectant and new mothers 
      could reduce viral respiratory illnesses and recurrent wheeze during the 
      preschool years and some forms of childhood asthma.

       Staphylococcus aureus colonizes patients with atopic dermatitis (AD) and 
      exacerbates disease by promoting inflammation. The present study investigated the 
      safety and mechanisms of action of Staphylococcus hominis A9 (ShA9), a bacterium 
      isolated from healthy human skin, as a topical therapy for AD. ShA9 killed S. 
      aureus on the skin of mice and inhibited expression of a toxin from S. aureus 
      (psmα) that promotes inflammation. A first-in-human, phase 1, double-blinded, 
      randomized 1-week trial of topical ShA9 or vehicle on the forearm skin of 54 
      adults with S. aureus-positive AD (NCT03151148) met its primary endpoint of 
      safety, and participants receiving ShA9 had fewer adverse events associated with 
      AD. Eczema severity was not significantly different when evaluated in all 
      participants treated with ShA9 but a significant decrease in S. aureus and 
      increased ShA9 DNA were seen and met secondary endpoints. Some S. aureus strains 
      on participants were not directly killed by ShA9, but expression of mRNA for psmα 
      was inhibited in all strains. Improvement in local eczema severity was suggested 
      by post-hoc analysis of participants with S. aureus directly killed by ShA9. 
      These observations demonstrate the safety and potential benefits of 
      bacteriotherapy for AD.

       BACKGROUND: Perennial aeroallergen sensitization is associated with greater 
      asthma morbidity and is required for treatment with omalizumab. OBJECTIVE: To 
      investigate the predictive relationship between the number of aeroallergen 
      sensitizations, total serum IgE, and serum eosinophil count, and response to 
      omalizumab in children and adolescents with asthma treated during the fall 
      season. METHODS: This analysis includes inner-city patients with persistent 
      asthma and recent exacerbations aged 6-20 years comprising the placebo- and 
      omalizumab-treated groups in 2 completed randomized clinical trials, the 
      Inner-City Anti-IgE Therapy for Asthma study and the Preventative Omalizumab or 
      Step-Up Therapy for Fall Exacerbations study. Logistic regression modeled the 
      relationship between greater degrees of markers of allergic inflammation and the 
      primary outcome of fall season asthma exacerbations. RESULTS: The analysis 
      included 761 participants who were 62% male and 59% African American with a 
      median age of 10 years. Fall asthma exacerbations were significantly higher in 
      children with greater numbers of aeroallergen-specific sensitizations in the 
      placebo group (odds ratio [OR], 1.33; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.11-1.60; P 
      &lt; .01), but not in the omalizumab-treated children (OR, 1.08; 95% CI, 0.91-1.28; 
      P = .37), indicating a significant differential effect (P &lt; .01). Likewise, there 
      was a differential effect of omalizumab treatment in children with greater 
      baseline total serum IgE levels (P &lt; .01) or greater baseline serum eosinophil 
      counts (P &lt; .01). Multiple aeroallergen sensitization was the best predictor of 
      response to omalizumab; treated participants sensitized to ≥4 different groups of 
      aeroallergens had a 51% reduction in the odds of a fall exacerbation (OR, 0.49; 
      95% CI, 0.30-0.81; P &lt; .01). CONCLUSIONS: In preventing fall season asthma 
      exacerbations, treatment with omalizumab was most beneficial in children with a 
      greater degree of allergic inflammation.

       BACKGROUND: Atopic dermatitis (AD) and food allergy (FA) are associated with skin 
      barrier dysfunction. OBJECTIVE: Skin biomarkers are needed for skin barrier 
      interventions studies. METHODS: In this study, skin tape strip (STS) samples were 
      collected from nonlesional skin of 62 children in AD FA+, AD FA-, and nonatopic 
      groups for mass spectrometry proteomic analysis. transepidermal water loss and 
      allergic sensitization were assessed. STS proteomic analysis results were 
      validated in an independent cohort of 41 adults with AD with and without FA 
      versus nonatopic controls. RESULTS: A group of 45 proteins was identified as a 
      principal component 1 (PC1) with the highest expression in AD FA+ STSs. This 
      novel set of STS proteins was highly correlative to skin transepidermal water 
      loss and allergic sensitization. PC1 proteins included keratin intermediate 
      filaments; proteins associated with inflammatory responses (S100 proteins, 
      alarmins, protease inhibitors); and glycolysis and antioxidant defense enzymes. 
      Analysis of PC1 proteins expression in an independent adult AD cohort validated 
      differential expression of STS PC1 proteins in the skin of adult patients with AD 
      with the history of clinical reactions to peanut. CONCLUSIONS: STS analysis of 
      nonlesional skin of AD children identified a cluster of proteins with the highest 
      expression in AD FA+ children. The differential expression of STS PC1 proteins 
      was confirmed in a replicate cohort of adult AD patients with FA to peanut, 
      suggesting a unique STS proteomic endotype for AD FA+ that persists into 
      adulthood. Collectively, PC1 proteins are associated with abnormalities in skin 
      barrier integrity and may increase the risk of epicutaneous sensitization to food 
      allergens.

       In a sub-study of a clinical trial (NCT01737710) investigating the immunogenicity 
      of trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine (IIV3) administered intradermally or 
      intramuscularly to individuals with atopic dermatitis (AD), we assessed T cell 
      and antigen-presenting cell (APC) responses to influenza B in AD and Non-AD 
      controls. The comparison of IFN-γ ELISpot in 58 AD and 31 Non-AD showed lower 
      responses in AD pre-vaccination. Pre-vaccination, AD also had lower Th2 responses 
      and less inflammatory cytokine production by APC measured by flow cytometry and 
      cytokine levels in culture supernatants. AD also had lower Th1 and Th2 responses 
      to nonspecific anti-CD3/anti-CD28-stimulation, but these were not significantly 
      correlated with the influenza-specific responses, suggesting a primary role for 
      the APC in the decreased influenza-specific T cell responses. Multivariate 
      modeling of influenza-specific responses pre-vaccination with influenza-specific 
      antibody titers and IFN-γ ELISpot as outcome measures identified several T cell 
      and APC subsets that negatively or positively predicted protective responses to 
      the vaccine. However, none of the functional differences between AD and Non-AD 
      had high predictive value on adaptive responses to influenza vaccine, which was 
      in agreement with the overall similar responses to the vaccine in the parent 
      clinical trial.

       Serum IL-6 was associated with asthma exacerbation risk but not with symptoms or 
      lung function in urban children; further studies to evaluate the role of IL-6 in 
      the life course of asthma are needed.

       BACKGROUND: Only some patients with peanut allergy undergoing oral immunotherapy 
      (OIT) achieve sustained clinical response. Basophil activation could provide a 
      functional surrogate of efficacy. OBJECTIVE: We hypothesized that changes in 
      basophil sensitivity and area under the curve (AUC) to the immunodominant 
      allergen Ara h 2 correlate with clinical responses to OIT. METHODS: Children with 
      peanut allergy aged 7 to 13 years were enrolled in a single-center, open-label 
      peanut OIT trial. Levels of specific immunoglobulins were measured throughout 
      OIT. Peripheral blood from multiple time points was stimulated in vitro with 
      peanut allergens for flow cytometric assessment of the percentage of CD63(hi) 
      activated basophils. RESULTS: Twenty-two of 30 subjects were successfully treated 
      with OIT; after avoidance, 9 achieved sustained unresponsiveness (SU), and 13 had 
      transient desensitization (TD). Basophil sensitivity, measured by using the dose 
      that induces 50% of the maximal basophil response, to Ara h 2 stimulation 
      decreased from baseline in subjects with SU (after OIT, P = .0041; after 
      avoidance, P = .0011). At 3 months of OIT, basophil sensitivity in subjects with 
      SU decreased from baseline compared with that in subjects with TD (median, 
      18-fold vs 3-fold; P = .01), with a receiver operating characteristic of 0.84 and 
      optimal fold change of 4.9. Basophil AUC to Ara h 2 was suppressed after OIT 
      equally in subjects with SU and those with TD (P = .4). After avoidance, basophil 
      AUC rebounded in subjects with TD but not those with SU (P &lt; .001). Passively 
      sensitized basophils suppressed with postavoidance SU plasma had a lower AUC than 
      TD plasma (6.4% vs 38.9%, P = .03). CONCLUSIONS: Early decreases in basophil 
      sensitivity to Ara h 2 correlate with SU. Basophil AUC rebounds after avoidance 
      in subjects with TD. Therefore, different aspects of basophil activation might be 
      useful for monitoring of OIT efficacy.

       BACKGROUND: Cockroach is one of the most important sources of indoor allergens 
      and can lead to IgE sensitization and development of rhinitis and asthma. 
      OBJECTIVE: We sought to perform a cockroach allergen component analysis to 
      determine the allergens and antibody levels and patterns of sensitization 
      associated with asthma and rhinitis. METHODS: Antibody (IgE, IgG, and IgG(4)) 
      levels to total cockroach and 8 cockroach allergens were determined in 2 groups 
      of cockroach-sensitized 10-year-old children with (n = 19) or without (n = 28) 
      asthma and rhinitis. Allergen-specific antibody levels were measured in 
      streptavidin ImmunoCAPs loaded with each of the recombinant allergens from groups 
      1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, and 11, and total cockroach-specific IgE levels were 
      measured with the i6 ImmunoCAP. RESULTS: IgE antibody levels to cockroach 
      allergens and extract, but not IgG or IgG(4) antibody levels, differed between 
      subjects with and without asthma and rhinitis. Specifically, recognition of more 
      cockroach allergens with higher allergen-specific IgE levels was associated with 
      disease. Variable patterns of sensitization with no immunodominant allergens were 
      found in both groups. There was a good correlation between the sum of 
      allergen-specific IgE and total cockroach IgE levels (r = 0.86, P &lt; .001). 
      CONCLUSIONS: Component analysis of 8 cockroach allergens revealed significant 
      differences in IgE reactivity associated with the presence of asthma and 
      rhinitis. Allergen-specific IgE titers and sensitization profiles were associated 
      with asthma and rhinitis.

       BACKGROUND: In infants, distinct nasopharyngeal bacterial microbiotas 
      differentially associate with the incidence and severity of acute respiratory 
      tract infection and childhood asthma development. OBJECTIVE: We hypothesized that 
      distinct nasal airway microbiota structures also exist in children with asthma 
      and relate to clinical outcomes. METHODS: Nasal secretion samples (n = 3122) 
      collected after randomization during the fall season from children with asthma 
      (6-17 years, n = 413) enrolled in a trial of omalizumab (anti-IgE) underwent 16S 
      rRNA profiling. Statistical analyses with exacerbation as the primary outcome and 
      rhinovirus infection and respiratory illnesses as secondary outcomes were 
      performed. Using A549 epithelial cells, we assessed nasal isolates of Moraxella, 
      Staphylococcus, and Corynebacterium species for their capacity to induce 
      epithelial damage and inflammatory responses. RESULTS: Six nasal airway 
      microbiota assemblages, each dominated by Moraxella, Staphylococcus, 
      Corynebacterium, Streptococcus, Alloiococcus, or Haemophilus species, were 
      observed. Moraxella and Staphylococcus species-dominated microbiotas were most 
      frequently detected and exhibited temporal stability. Nasal microbiotas dominated 
      by Moraxella species were associated with increased exacerbation risk and 
      eosinophil activation. Staphylococcus or Corynebacterium species-dominated 
      microbiotas were associated with reduced respiratory illness and exacerbation 
      events, whereas Streptococcus species-dominated assemblages increased the risk of 
      rhinovirus infection. Nasal microbiota composition remained relatively stable 
      despite viral infection or exacerbation; only a few taxa belonging to the 
      dominant genera exhibited relative abundance fluctuations during these events. 
      In vitro, Moraxella catarrhalis induced significantly greater epithelial damage 
      and inflammatory cytokine expression (IL-33 and IL-8) compared with other 
      dominant nasal bacterial isolates tested. CONCLUSION: Distinct nasal airway 
      microbiotas of children with asthma relate to the likelihood of exacerbation, 
      rhinovirus infection, and respiratory illnesses during the fall season.

       BACKGROUND: Allergy to German cockroach (CR) is common in urban environments and 
      is an important allergen in children with asthma. OBJECTIVE: We hypothesize that 
      the evolution of allergic sensitization and clinical disease is associated with 
      distinct patterns of allergen-specific T cell reactivity. To test this 
      hypothesis, a subset of high-risk inner-city children participating in the URECA 
      (Urban Environment and Childhood Asthma) birth cohort were selected to evaluate 
      CR-specific T cell reactivity from three distinct groups based on acquisition of 
      aeroallergen sensitivity from ages 2 to 10: low atopy with minimal to no 
      sensitivity (n = 26), early-onset allergic sensitization (n = 25) and late-onset 
      allergic sensitization (n = 25). METHODS: Using pools of previously identified 
      CR-derived T cell epitopes, we characterized the allergen-specific T cell 
      response in these 76 subjects from blood samples obtained at age 10. CR-specific 
      production of IL-5, IFNγ and IL-10 was measured by ELISPOT following two-week in 
      vitro culture with CR extract. RESULTS: T cell responses were significantly 
      higher in the early-onset atopy group compared to low atopy (P = 0.01), and a 
      trend for higher cytokine production in the late onset compared to the low atopy 
      cohort was also observed (P = 0.06). T cell responses were similar between early- 
      and late-onset cohorts. Furthermore, a comparison of T cell reactivity between 
      asthmatic and non-asthmatic individuals revealed significantly higher cytokine 
      production in asthmatics compared to non-asthmatics (P = 0.02) within both the 
      CR-allergic and non-allergic cohorts. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: In 
      conclusion, the present study reports that higher T cell reactivity is associated 
      with allergen sensitization and asthma. Interestingly, no significant difference 
      in T cell reactivity was observed in allergic children with early-onset versus 
      late-onset atopy.

       Skin barrier dysfunction has been reported in both atopic dermatitis (AD) and 
      food allergy (FA). However, only one-third of patients with AD have FA. The 
      purpose of this study was to use a minimally invasive skin tape strip sampling 
      method and a multiomics approach to determine whether children with AD and FA (AD 
      FA+) have stratum corneum (SC) abnormalities that distinguish them from AD 
      without FA (AD FA-) and nonatopic (NA) controls. Transepidermal water loss was 
      found to be increased in AD FA+. Filaggrin and the proportion of ω-hydroxy fatty 
      acid sphingosine ceramide content in nonlesional skin of children with AD FA+ 
      were substantially lower than in AD FA- and NA skin. These abnormalities 
      correlated with morphologic changes in epidermal lamellar bilayer architecture 
      responsible for barrier homeostasis. Shotgun metagenomic studies revealed that 
      the nonlesional skin of AD FA+ had increased abundance of Staphylococcus aureus 
      compared to NA. Increased expression of keratins 5, 14, and 16 indicative of 
      hyperproliferative keratinocytes was observed in the SC of AD FA+. The skin 
      transcriptome of AD FA+ had increased gene expression for dendritic cells and 
      type 2 immune pathways. A network analysis revealed keratins 5, 14, and 16 were 
      positively correlated with AD FA+, whereas filaggrin breakdown products were 
      negatively correlated with AD FA+. These data suggest that the most superficial 
      compartment of nonlesional skin in AD FA+ has unique properties associated with 
      an immature skin barrier and type 2 immune activation.

       BACKGROUND: Multicenter randomized controlled trials (RCTs) for asthma management 
      that incorporate usual-care regimens could benefit from standardized application 
      of evidence-based guidelines. OBJECTIVE: We sought to evaluate performance of a 
      computerized decision support tool, the Asthma Control Evaluation and Treatment 
      (ACET) Program, to standardize usual-care regimens for asthma management in RCTs. 
      METHODS: Children and adolescents with persistent uncontrolled asthma living in 
      urban census tracts were recruited into 3 multicenter RCTs (each with a 
      usual-care arm) between 2004 and 2014. A computerized decision support tool 
      scored asthma control and assigned an appropriate treatment step based on 
      published guidelines. Control-level determinants (symptoms, rescue medication 
      use, pulmonary function measure, and adherence estimates) were collected at 
      visits and entered into the ACET Program. Changes in control levels and treatment 
      steps were examined during the trials. RESULTS: At screening, more than half of 
      the participants were rated as having symptoms that were not controlled or poorly 
      controlled. The proportion of participants who gained good control between 
      screening and randomization increased significantly in all 3 trials. Between 51% 
      and 70% had symptoms that were well controlled by randomization. The proportion 
      of well-controlled participants remained constant or improved slightly from 
      randomization until the last posttreatment visit. Nighttime symptoms were the 
      most common control-level determinant; there were few (&lt;1%) instances of complete 
      overlap of factors. FEV(1) was the driver of control-level assignment in 30% of 
      determinations. CONCLUSION: The ACET Program decision support tool facilitated 
      standardized asthma assessment and treatment in multicenter RCTs and was 
      associated with attaining and maintaining good asthma control in most 
      participants.

       RATIONALE: Characterization of patterns of wheezing and allergic sensitization in 
      early life may allow for identification of specific environmental exposures 
      impacting asthma development. OBJECTIVES: To define respiratory phenotypes in 
      inner-city children and their associations with early-life environmental 
      exposures. METHODS: Data were collected prospectively from 442 children in the 
      URECA (Urban Environment and Childhood Asthma) birth cohort through age 7 years, 
      reflecting symptoms (wheezing), aeroallergen sensitization, pulmonary function, 
      and body mass index. Latent class mixed models identified trajectories of 
      wheezing, allergic sensitization, and pulmonary function. Cluster analysis 
      defined nonoverlapping groups (termed phenotypes). Potential associations between 
      phenotypes and early-life environmental exposures were examined. MEASUREMENTS AND 
      MAIN RESULTS: Five phenotypes were identified and mainly differentiated by 
      patterns of wheezing and allergic sensitization (low wheeze/low atopy; low 
      wheeze/high atopy; transient wheeze/low atopy; high wheeze/low atopy; high 
      wheeze/high atopy). Asthma was most often present in the high-wheeze phenotypes, 
      with greatest respiratory morbidity among children with frequent wheezing and 
      allergic sensitization. These phenotypes differentially related to early-life 
      exposures, including maternal stress and depression, antenatal environmental 
      tobacco smoke, house dust microbiome, and allergen content (all P &lt; 0.05). 
      Prenatal smoke exposure, maternal stress, and depression were highest in the 
      high-wheeze/low-atopy phenotype. The high-wheeze/high-atopy phenotype was 
      associated with low household microbial richness and diversity. Early-life 
      aeroallergen exposure was low in high-wheeze phenotypes. CONCLUSIONS: Patterns of 
      wheezing, allergic sensitization, and lung function identified five respiratory 
      phenotypes among inner-city children. Early-life environmental exposure to 
      stress, depression, tobacco smoke, and indoor allergens and microbes 
      differentially associate with specific phenotypes.

       BACKGROUND: Children with asthma are at increased risk for experiencing health 
      and educational disparities because of increased school absence. School nurses 
      are well positioned to support asthma management and improve school attendance. 
      OBJECTIVE: We sought to implement and assess the effect of the Building Bridges 
      for Asthma Care Program on improving school attendance and measures of asthma 
      control. METHODS: Children with asthma (age, 5-14 years) in the Denver Public 
      School System (n = 240) and the Hartford Public School System (n = 223) were 
      enrolled in the Building Bridges Program during the 2013-2014 and 2014-2015 
      school years and followed until the end of the second school year. The primary 
      outcome was school absence, with secondary outcomes, including asthma control, 
      measured based on Childhood Asthma Control Test or the Asthma Control Test scores 
      and rescue inhaler use. RESULTS: Participants experienced a 22% absolute decrease 
      in school absenteeism, the number of children with an Asthma Control 
      Test/Childhood Asthma Control Test score of less than the control threshold of 20 
      decreased from 42.7% to 28.8%, and bronchodilator use greater than 2 times per 
      week decreased from 35.8% to 22.9% (all changes were significant, P &lt; .01). 
      CONCLUSIONS: Children enrolled in the Building Bridges for Asthma Care Program 
      experienced reduced school absence and improved asthma control.

       BACKGROUND: Bedroom allergen exposures contribute to allergic disease morbidity 
      because people spend considerable time in bedrooms, where they come into close 
      contact with allergen reservoirs. OBJECTIVE: We investigated participant and 
      housing characteristics, including sociodemographic, regional, and climatic 
      factors, associated with bedroom allergen exposures in a nationally 
      representative sample of the US population. METHODS: Data were obtained from 
      National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2005-2006. Information on 
      participant and housing characteristics was collected by using questionnaires and 
      environmental assessments. Concentrations of 8 indoor allergens (Alt a 1, Bla g 
      1, Can f 1, Fel d 1, Der f 1, Der p 1, Mus m 1, and Rat n 1) in dust vacuumed 
      from nearly 7000 bedrooms were measured by using immunoassays. Exposure levels 
      were classified as increased based on percentile (75th/90th) cutoffs. We 
      estimated the burden of exposure to multiple allergens and used multivariable 
      logistic regression to identify independent predictors for each allergen and 
      household allergen burden. RESULTS: Almost all participants (&gt;99%) had at least 1 
      and 74.2% had 3 to 6 allergens detected. More than two thirds of participants 
      (72.9%) had at least 1 allergen and 18.2% had 3 or more allergens exceeding 
      increased levels. Although exposure variability showed significant racial/ethnic 
      and regional differences, high exposure burden to multiple allergens was most 
      consistently associated with the presence of pets and pests, living in mobile 
      homes/trailers and older and rental homes, and living in nonmetropolitan areas. 
      CONCLUSIONS: Exposure to multiple allergens is common. Despite highly variable 
      exposures, bedroom allergen burden is strongly associated with the presence of 
      pets and pests.

       BACKGROUND: Environmental exposures in early life appear to play an important 
      role in the pathogenesis of childhood asthma, but the potentially modifiable 
      exposures that lead to asthma remain uncertain. OBJECTIVE: We sought to identify 
      early-life environmental risk factors for childhood asthma in a birth cohort of 
      high-risk inner-city children. METHODS: We examined the relationship of prenatal 
      and early-life environmental factors to the occurrence of asthma at 7 years of 
      age among 442 children. RESULTS: Higher house dust concentrations of cockroach, 
      mouse, and cat allergens in the first 3 years of life were associated with lower 
      risk of asthma (for cockroach allergen: odds ratio per interquartile range 
      increase in concentration, 0.55; 95% CI, 0.36-0.86; P &lt; .01). House dust 
      microbiome analysis using 16S ribosomal RNA sequencing identified 202 and 171 
      bacterial taxa that were significantly (false discovery rate &lt; 0.05) more or less 
      abundant, respectively, in the homes of children with asthma. A majority of these 
      bacteria were significantly correlated with 1 of more allergen concentrations. 
      Other factors associated significantly positively with asthma included umbilical 
      cord plasma cotinine concentration (odds ratio per geometric SD increase in 
      concentration, 1.76; 95% CI, 1.00-3.09; P = .048) and maternal stress and 
      depression scores. CONCLUSION: Among high-risk inner-city children, higher indoor 
      levels of pet or pest allergens in infancy were associated with lower risk of 
      asthma. The abundance of a number of bacterial taxa in house dust was associated 
      with increased or decreased asthma risk. Prenatal tobacco smoke exposure and 
      higher maternal stress and depression scores in early life were associated with 
      increased asthma risk.

       BACKGROUND: Atopy and viral respiratory tract infections synergistically promote 
      asthma exacerbations. IgE cross-linking inhibits critical virus-induced IFN-α 
      responses of plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs), which can be deficient in 
      patients with allergic asthma. OBJECTIVE: We sought to determine whether reducing 
      IgE levels in vivo with omalizumab treatment increases pDC antiviral IFN-α 
      responses in inner-city children with asthma. METHODS: PBMCs and pDCs isolated 
      from children with exacerbation-prone asthma before and during omalizumab 
      treatment were stimulated ex vivo with rhinovirus and influenza in the presence 
      or absence of IgE cross-linking. IFN-α levels were measured in supernatants, and 
      mRNA expression of IFN-α pathway genes was determined by using quantitative 
      RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) in cell pellets. FcεRIα protein levels and mRNA expression were 
      measured in unstimulated cells by using flow cytometry and qRT-PCR, respectively. 
      Changes in these outcomes and associations with clinical outcomes were analyzed, 
      and statistical modeling was used to identify risk factors for asthma 
      exacerbations. RESULTS: Omalizumab treatment increased rhinovirus- and 
      influenza-induced PBMC and rhinovirus-induced pDC IFN-α responses in the presence 
      of IgE cross-linking and reduced pDC surface FcεRIα expression. 
      Omalizumab-induced reductions in pDC FcεRIα levels were significantly associated 
      with a lower asthma exacerbation rate during the outcome period and correlated 
      with increases in PBMC IFN-α responses. PBMC FcεRIα mRNA expression measured on 
      study entry significantly improved an existing model of exacerbation prediction. 
      CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicate that omalizumab treatment augments pDC IFN-α 
      responses and attenuates pDC FcεRIα protein expression and provide evidence that 
      these effects are related. These results support a potential mechanism underlying 
      clinical observations that allergic sensitization is associated with increased 
      susceptibility to virus-induced asthma exacerbations.

       BACKGROUND: Although pets are found in more than 50% of US homes, the effect of 
      pet allergen exposure on asthma morbidity in the US population is not well 
      documented. OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect of dog and cat allergen exposures 
      on asthma morbidity in the US population. METHODS: The National Health and 
      Nutrition Examination Survey is a representative sample of civilian US 
      population. Data on asthma, dog and cat allergen levels in bedroom dust, as well 
      as specific IgE to dog and cat were analyzed for all participants 6 years or 
      older. RESULTS: Pets are common in the United States, with more that 50% of 
      households having a dog or a cat or both. The prevalence of allergic 
      sensitization in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey population 
      was similar for dog and cat, with both being approximately 12%. Among those who 
      were sensitized, exposure to elevated levels of pet allergens was associated with 
      an increased prevalence of asthma and asthma attacks. Indeed, 44.2% of the asthma 
      attacks were attributable to exposure to high levels of dog allergen in the 
      bedroom among patients with asthma sensitive to dog and 30.3% were attributable 
      to cat allergen exposure among the comparable cat-sensitive and exposed group. 
      Projecting these results to the US population indicates more than 1 million 
      increased asthma attacks each year for the dog-sensitive and exposed group and 
      more than 500,000 increased asthma attacks for the cat-sensitive and exposed 
      population of patients with asthma. CONCLUSIONS: Exposure to elevated levels of 
      dog and cat allergens among those sensitized individuals with asthma is 
      associated with excess asthma attacks. Reducing pet allergen exposures has the 
      potential for a significant decrease in asthma morbidity.

       BACKGROUND: Conventional data analysis of flow cytometry-based basophil 
      activation testing requires repetitive, labor-intensive analysis that hampers 
      efforts to standardize testing for clinical applications. Using an open-source 
      platform, we developed and implemented a programmatic approach to the analysis of 
      the basophil activation test (BAT) by flow cytometry. METHODS: Using the BÜHLMANN 
      FlowCAST® assay, peripheral blood from peanut allergic patients undergoing oral 
      immunotherapy was incubated with peanut allergens (Arah1, Arah2, Arah6, whole 
      peanut extract) and stained with fluorescent antibodies to CCR3 and CD63 for the 
      development of a data-driven programmatic analysis using Bioconductor and R. 
      Basophil identification using clustering and classification was validated using 
      manually gated comparisons in an experimental subset. Reproducibility of CD63 
      upregulation set on unstimulated or anti-FcERI stimulated basophils was compared. 
      RESULTS: BAT analysis of 294 experiments was successful in 91.5% using the above 
      approach, with a total of 7,166 individual basophil activation tests from 269 
      experiments. We estimate this represents a net saving of 1340 min of labor by a 
      skilled operator. Medium-based gating correlated to respective manual gating more 
      closely than anti-FcERI based gating (R = 0.96 vs. R = 0.84, P &lt; 0.001). Only 2% 
      of the basophil activation results were significantly different from manual 
      gating. Quality measures of the experiments and other measures of basophil 
      activation were also provided by the analysis. CONCLUSIONS: We present a novel 
      data-driven flow cytometric platform for the analysis of clinical basophil 
      activation testing, providing a high throughput objective approach to basophil 
      activation analysis. © 2017 International Clinical Cytometry Society.

       RATIONALE: Allergic inflammation has been linked to increased susceptibility to 
      viral illnesses, but it is unclear whether this association is causal. 
      OBJECTIVES: To test whether omalizumab treatment to reduce IgE would shorten the 
      frequency and duration of rhinovirus (RV) illnesses in children with allergic 
      asthma. METHODS: In the PROSE (Preventative Omalizumab or Step-up Therapy for 
      Severe Fall Exacerbations) study, we examined children with allergic asthma (aged 
      6-17 yr; n = 478) from low-income census tracts in eight U.S. cities, and we 
      analyzed virology for the groups randomized to treatment with guidelines-based 
      asthma care (n = 89) or add-on omalizumab (n = 259). Weekly nasal mucus samples 
      were analyzed for RVs, and respiratory symptoms and asthma exacerbations were 
      recorded over a 90-day period during the fall seasons of 2012 or 2013. Adjusted 
      illness rates (illnesses per sample) by treatment arm were calculated using 
      Poisson regression. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: RVs were detected in 97 (57%) 
      of 171 exacerbation samples and 2,150 (36%) of 5,959 nonexacerbation samples (OR, 
      2.32; P &lt; 0.001). Exacerbations were significantly associated with detection of 
      rhinovirus C (OR, 2.85; P &lt; 0.001) and rhinovirus A (OR, 2.92; P &lt; 0.001), as 
      well as, to a lesser extent, rhinovirus B (OR, 1.98; P = 0.019). Omalizumab 
      decreased the duration of RV infection (11.2 d vs. 12.4 d; P = 0.03) and reduced 
      peak RV shedding by 0.4 log units (95% confidence interval, -0.77 to -0.02; 
      P = 0.04). Finally, omalizumab decreased the frequency of RV illnesses (risk 
      ratio, 0.64; 95% confidence interval, 0.49-0.84). CONCLUSIONS: In children with 
      allergic asthma, treatment with omalizumab decreased the duration of RV 
      infections, viral shedding, and the risk of RV illnesses. These findings provide 
      direct evidence that blocking IgE decreases susceptibility to RV infections and 
      illness. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT01430403).

       BACKGROUND: A Seasonal Asthma Exacerbation Predictive Index (saEPI) was 
      previously reported based on 2 prior National Institute of Allergy and Infectious 
      Diseases Inner City Asthma Consortium trials. OBJECTIVE: This study sought to 
      validate the saEPI in a separate trial designed to prevent fall exacerbations 
      with omalizumab therapy. METHODS: The saEPI and its components were analyzed to 
      characterize those who had an asthma exacerbation during the Preventative 
      Omalizumab or Step-Up Therapy for Fall Exacerbations (PROSE) study. We 
      characterized those inner-city children with and without asthma exacerbations in 
      the fall period treated with guidelines-based therapy (GBT) in the absence and 
      presence of omalizumab. RESULTS: A higher saEPI was associated with an 
      exacerbation in both the GBT alone (P &lt; .001; area under the curve, 0.76) and the 
      GBT + omalizumab group (P &lt; .01; area under the curve, 0.65). In the GBT group, 
      younger age at recruitment, higher total IgE, higher blood eosinophil percentage 
      and number, and higher treatment step were associated with those who had an 
      exacerbation compared with those who did not. In the GBT + omalizumab group, 
      younger age at recruitment, increased eosinophil number, recent exacerbation, and 
      higher treatment step were also associated with those who had an exacerbation. 
      The saEPI was associated with a high negative predictive value in both groups. 
      CONCLUSIONS: An exacerbation in children treated with GBT with or without 
      omalizumab was associated with a higher saEPI along with higher markers of 
      allergic inflammation, treatment step, and a recent exacerbation. Those that 
      exacerbated on omalizumab had similar features with the exception of some markers 
      of allergic sensitization, indicating a need to develop better markers to predict 
      poor response to omalizumab therapy and alternative treatment strategies for 
      children with these risk factors. The saEPI was able to reliably predict those 
      children unlikely to have an asthma exacerbation in both groups.

       BACKGROUND: Disadvantaged urban children have high rates of allergic diseases and 
      wheezing, which are diseases associated with type 2-biased immunity. OBJECTIVE: 
      We sought to determine whether environmental exposures in early life influence 
      cytokine responses that affect the development of recurrent wheezing illnesses 
      and allergic sensitization. METHODS: A birth cohort of 560 urban families was 
      recruited from neighborhoods with high rates of poverty, and 467 (83%) children 
      were followed until 3 years of age. Cytokine responses were measured in blood 
      cell samples obtained at birth (cord blood) and ages 1 and 3 years. Cytokine 
      responses were examined in relation to personal characteristics and environmental 
      exposures to allergens and endotoxin and to the development of allergic 
      sensitization and recurrent wheeze assessed at age 3 years. RESULTS: Cytokine 
      responses generally increased with age, but responses at birth were poorly 
      predictive for those at ages 1 and 3 years. Exposure to certain allergens 
      (cockroach, mouse, dust mite) was significantly associated with enhanced cytokine 
      responses at age 3 years, including IFN-α and IL-10 responses to certain 
      stimulants and responses to phytohemagglutinin. Regarding the clinical outcomes, 
      reduced LPS-induced IL-10 responses at birth were associated with recurrent 
      wheeze. In contrast, reduced respiratory syncytial virus-induced IL-8 responses 
      and increased 5'-cytosine-phosphate-guanine-3' (CpG)-induced IL-12p40 and 
      allergen-induced IL-4 responses were associated with atopy. CONCLUSIONS: These 
      findings suggest that diverse biologic exposures, including allergens and 
      endotoxin, in urban homes stimulate the development of cytokine responses in 
      early life, and that cytokine responses to specific microbial and viral stimuli 
      are associated with the development of allergic sensitization and recurrent 
      wheeze.

       BACKGROUND: Aged asthmatic patients experience increased morbidity and mortality. 
      Knowledge of the aging effect on airway inflammation and asthma control is 
      limited. OBJECTIVE: We sought to compare airway inflammation and its relationship 
      to asthma control in aged versus younger patients and determine whether 
      differences are asthma specific or caused by "inflamm-aging." METHODS: We 
      performed a prospective study of aged (&gt;60 years) and younger (21-40 years) 
      inner-city patients with asthma. After a run-in period to control for inhaled 
      corticosteroid use, induced sputum was collected. Age-matched nonasthmatic 
      control subjects were included to measure age-related inflammatory changes. 
      RESULTS: Aged (mean age, 67.9 ± 5.1 years; n = 35) compared with younger (mean 
      age, 30.8 ± 5.9 years; n = 37) asthmatic patients had significantly worse asthma 
      control and lower FEV(1). Aged asthmatic patients had higher sputum neutrophil 
      (30.5 × 10(4)/mL and 23.1%) and eosinophil (7.0 × 10(4)/mL and 3.8%) numbers and 
      percentages compared with younger patients (neutrophils, 13.0 × 10(4)/mL 
      [P &lt; .01] and 6.9% [P &lt; .01]; eosinophils, 2.0 × 10(4)/mL [P &lt; .01] and 1.2% 
      [P &lt; .01]). Aged asthmatic patients had higher sputum IL-6 (P &lt; .01) and IL-8 
      (P = .01) levels. No significant inflammatory differences between aged and 
      younger control subjects were observed. In aged asthmatic patients increased 
      sputum IL-6 and macrophage inflammatory protein 3α/CCL20 levels were 
      significantly associated with decreased asthma control and increased sputum 
      neutrophil numbers and IL-1β, IL-6, and macrophage inflammatory protein 3α/CCL20 
      levels were associated with hospitalization. CONCLUSIONS: The inflammatory 
      patterns of aged versus younger asthmatic patients are associated with increased 
      sputum neutrophil and eosinophil values and cytokine levels related to neutrophil 
      recruitment. Differences in airway inflammation can contribute to diminished 
      asthma control in the aged. Further understanding of asthma pathophysiology in 
      aged patients is needed to improve management of this vulnerable population.

       BACKGROUND: Environmental exposures to indoor allergens are major contributors to 
      asthma symptoms, particularly in inner cities. The effectiveness of household 
      allergen reduction as an adjunct to National Asthma Education Prevention Program 
      guideline-based pharmacologic therapy in asthma has not been prospectively 
      studied. OBJECTIVE: To study the effect of individualized allergen reduction on 
      ability to reduce asthma pharmacologic therapy over 40 weeks. METHODS: We 
      performed a randomized controlled trial to determine the effect of multifaceted 
      indoor allergen avoidance measures on the ability to reduce asthma controller 
      therapy in adults and children residing in New York City who were both sensitized 
      and exposed to at least 1 indoor allergen. Asthma treatment and control were 
      optimized in all subjects before randomization. RESULTS: A total of 125 subjects 
      were randomized to receive individualized household allergen reduction and 122 
      received a sham intervention. Subjects in the intervention group significantly 
      reduced all measured allergen levels (cat, dog, dust mite allergens in the 
      bedroom, cockroach and mouse allergens in the kitchen and bedroom); those in the 
      control group reduced only dust mite and mouse allergens in the bedroom and 
      cockroach allergen in the kitchen. Participants in the intervention arm reduced 
      National Asthma Education Prevention Program-based therapy from step 4.4 at 
      randomization to 3.50 postintervention (range, 0-6); participants in the control 
      arm reduced medication from step 4.4 to 3.4 (P = .76). There were no differences 
      in other measured asthma outcomes. CONCLUSIONS: Targeted allergen avoidance 
      measures do not allow for reduction in asthma pharmacologic therapy compared with 
      usual care in patients already receiving optimal controller therapy.

       BACKGROUND: Short-term targeted treatment can potentially prevent fall asthma 
      exacerbations while limiting therapy exposure. OBJECTIVE: We sought to compare 
      (1) omalizumab with placebo and (2) omalizumab with an inhaled corticosteroid 
      (ICS) boost with regard to fall exacerbation rates when initiated 4 to 6 weeks 
      before return to school. METHODS: A 3-arm, randomized, double-blind, double 
      placebo-controlled, multicenter clinical trial was conducted among inner-city 
      asthmatic children aged 6 to 17 years with 1 or more recent exacerbations 
      (clincaltrials.gov #NCT01430403). Guidelines-based therapy was continued over a 
      4- to 9-month run-in phase and a 4-month intervention phase. In a subset the 
      effects of omalizumab on IFN-α responses to rhinovirus in PBMCs were examined. 
      RESULTS: Before the falls of 2012 and 2013, 727 children were enrolled, 513 were 
      randomized, and 478 were analyzed. The fall exacerbation rate was significantly 
      lower in the omalizumab versus placebo arms (11.3% vs 21.0%; odds ratio [OR], 
      0.48; 95% CI, 0.25-0.92), but there was no significant difference between 
      omalizumab and ICS boost (8.4% vs 11.1%; OR, 0.73; 95% CI, 0.33-1.64). In a 
      prespecified subgroup analysis, among participants with an exacerbation during 
      the run-in phase, omalizumab was significantly more efficacious than both placebo 
      (6.4% vs 36.3%; OR, 0.12; 95% CI, 0.02-0.64) and ICS boost (2.0% vs 27.8%; OR, 
      0.05; 95% CI, 0.002-0.98). Omalizumab improved IFN-α responses to rhinovirus, and 
      within the omalizumab group, greater IFN-α increases were associated with fewer 
      exacerbations (OR, 0.14; 95% CI, 0.01-0.88). Adverse events were rare and similar 
      among arms. CONCLUSIONS: Adding omalizumab before return to school to ongoing 
      guidelines-based care among inner-city youth reduces fall asthma exacerbations, 
      particularly among those with a recent exacerbation.

       BACKGROUND: Peanut oral immunotherapy (PNOIT) induces persistent tolerance to 
      peanut in a subset of patients and induces specific antibodies that might play a 
      role in clinical protection. However, the contribution of induced antibody clones 
      to clinical tolerance in PNOIT is unknown. OBJECTIVE: We hypothesized that PNOIT 
      induces a clonal, allergen-specific B-cell response that could serve as a 
      surrogate for clinical outcomes. METHODS: We used a fluorescent Ara h 2 multimer 
      for affinity selection of Ara h 2-specific B cells and subsequent single-cell 
      immunoglobulin amplification. The diversity of related clones was evaluated by 
      means of next-generation sequencing of immunoglobulin heavy chains from 
      circulating memory B cells with 2x250 paired-end sequencing on the Illumina MiSeq 
      platform. RESULTS: Expression of class-switched antibodies from Ara h 2-positive 
      cells confirms enrichment for Ara h 2 specificity. PNOIT induces an early and 
      transient expansion of circulating Ara h 2-specific memory B cells that peaks at 
      week 7. Ara h 2-specific sequences from memory cells have rates of nonsilent 
      mutations consistent with affinity maturation. The repertoire of Ara h 2-specific 
      antibodies is oligoclonal. Next-generation sequencing-based repertoire analysis 
      of circulating memory B cells reveals evidence for convergent selection of 
      related sequences in 3 unrelated subjects, suggesting the presence of similar Ara 
      h 2-specific B-cell clones. CONCLUSIONS: Using a novel affinity selection 
      approach to identify antigen-specific B cells, we demonstrate that the early 
      PNOIT-induced Ara h 2-specific B-cell receptor repertoire is oligoclonal and 
      somatically hypermutated and shares similar clonal groups among unrelated 
      subjects consistent with convergent selection.

       BACKGROUND: Asthma exacerbations remain common, even in children and adolescents, 
      despite optimal medical management. Identification of host risk factors for 
      exacerbations is incomplete, particularly for seasonal episodes. OBJECTIVE: We 
      sought to define host risk factors for asthma exacerbations unique to their 
      season of occurrence. METHODS: This is a retrospective analysis of patients aged 
      6 to 20 years who comprised the control groups of the Asthma Control Evaluation 
      study and the Inner City Anti-IgE Therapy for Asthma study. Univariate and 
      multivariate models were constructed to determine whether patients' demographic 
      and historical factors, allergic sensitization, fraction of exhaled nitric oxide 
      values, spirometric measurements, asthma control, and treatment requirements were 
      associated with seasonal exacerbations. RESULTS: The analysis included 400 
      patients (54.5% male; 59.0% African American; median age, 13 years). 
      Exacerbations occurred in 37.5% of participants over the periods of observation 
      and were most common in the fall (28.8% of participants). In univariate analysis 
      impaired pulmonary function was significantly associated with greater odds of 
      exacerbations for all seasons, as was an exacerbation in the previous season for 
      all seasons except spring. In multivariate analysis exacerbation in the previous 
      season was the strongest predictor in fall and winter, whereas a higher 
      requirement for inhaled corticosteroids was the strongest predictor in spring and 
      summer. The multivariate models had the best predictive power for fall 
      exacerbations (30.5% variance attributed). CONCLUSIONS: Among a large cohort of 
      inner-city children with asthma, patients' risk factors for exacerbation vary by 
      season. Thus information on individual patients might be beneficial in strategies 
      to prevent these seasonal events.

       BACKGROUND: Epigenetic marks are heritable, influenced by the environment, direct 
      the maturation of T lymphocytes, and in mice enhance the development of allergic 
      airway disease. Thus it is important to define epigenetic alterations in 
      asthmatic populations. OBJECTIVE: We hypothesize that epigenetic alterations in 
      circulating PBMCs are associated with allergic asthma. METHODS: We compared DNA 
      methylation patterns and gene expression in inner-city children with persistent 
      atopic asthma versus healthy control subjects by using DNA and RNA from PBMCs. 
      Results were validated in an independent population of asthmatic patients. 
      RESULTS: Comparing asthmatic patients (n = 97) with control subjects (n = 97), we 
      identified 81 regions that were differentially methylated. Several immune genes 
      were hypomethylated in asthma, including IL13, RUNX3, and specific genes relevant 
      to T lymphocytes (TIGIT). Among asthmatic patients, 11 differentially methylated 
      regions were associated with higher serum IgE concentrations, and 16 were 
      associated with percent predicted FEV1. Hypomethylated and hypermethylated 
      regions were associated with increased and decreased gene expression, 
      respectively (P &lt; 6 × 10(-12) for asthma and P &lt; .01 for IgE). We further 
      explored the relationship between DNA methylation and gene expression using an 
      integrative analysis and identified additional candidates relevant to asthma (IL4 
      and ST2). Methylation marks involved in T-cell maturation (RUNX3), TH2 immunity 
      (IL4), and oxidative stress (catalase) were validated in an independent asthmatic 
      cohort of children living in the inner city. CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate 
      that DNA methylation marks in specific gene loci are associated with asthma and 
      suggest that epigenetic changes might play a role in establishing the immune 
      phenotype associated with asthma.

       BACKGROUND: Wheezing illnesses cause major morbidity in infants and are frequent 
      precursors to asthma. OBJECTIVE: We sought to examine environmental factors 
      associated with recurrent wheezing in inner-city environments. METHODS: The Urban 
      Environment and Childhood Asthma study examined a birth cohort at high risk for 
      asthma (n = 560) in Baltimore, Boston, New York, and St Louis. Environmental 
      assessments included allergen exposure and, in a nested case-control study of 104 
      children, the bacterial content of house dust collected in the first year of 
      life. Associations were determined among environmental factors, aeroallergen 
      sensitization, and recurrent wheezing at age 3 years. RESULTS: Cumulative 
      allergen exposure over the first 3 years was associated with allergic 
      sensitization, and sensitization at age 3 years was related to recurrent wheeze. 
      In contrast, first-year exposure to cockroach, mouse, and cat allergens was 
      negatively associated with recurrent wheeze (odds ratio, 0.60, 0.65, and 0.75, 
      respectively; P ≤ .01). Differences in house dust bacterial content in the first 
      year, especially reduced exposure to specific Firmicutes and Bacteriodetes, was 
      associated with atopy and atopic wheeze. Exposure to high levels of both 
      allergens and this subset of bacteria in the first year of life was most common 
      among children without atopy or wheeze. CONCLUSIONS: In inner-city environments 
      children with the highest exposure to specific allergens and bacteria during 
      their first year were least likely to have recurrent wheeze and allergic 
      sensitization. These findings suggest that concomitant exposure to high levels of 
      certain allergens and bacteria in early life might be beneficial and suggest new 
      preventive strategies for wheezing and allergic diseases.

       BACKGROUND: Treatment regimens for omalizumab are guided by a dosing table that 
      is based on total serum IgE and body weight. Limited data exist about onset and 
      offset of omalizumab efficacy in children and adolescents or subgroups that most 
      benefit from treatment. OBJECTIVES: Post hoc analyses were conducted to (1) 
      examine patient characteristics of those eligible and ineligible for omalizumab, 
      (2) describe onset of effect after initiation of omalizumab and offset of 
      treatment effect after stopping therapy, and (3) determine whether the efficacy 
      differs by age, asthma severity, dosing regimen, and prespecified biomarkers. 
      METHODS: Inner-city children and adolescents with persistent allergic asthma were 
      enrolled in the Inner-City Anti-IgE Therapy for Asthma trial that compared 
      omalizumab with placebo added to guidelines-based therapy for 60 weeks. RESULTS: 
      Two hundred ninety-three of 889 participants (33%) clinically suitable for 
      omalizumab were ineligible for dosing according to a modified dosing table 
      specifying IgE level and body weight criteria. Baseline symptoms were comparable 
      among those eligible and ineligible to receive omalizumab, but other 
      characteristics (rate of health care utilization and skin test results) differed. 
      The time of onset of omalizumab effect was &lt;30 days and time of offset was 
      between 30 and 120 days. No difference in efficacy was noted by age or asthma 
      severity, but high exhaled nitric oxide, blood eosinophils, and body mass index 
      predicted efficacy. CONCLUSIONS: A significant portion of children and 
      adolescents particularly suited for omalizumab because of asthma severity status 
      may be ineligible due to IgE &gt;1300 IU/mL. Omalizumab reduced asthma symptoms and 
      exacerbations rapidly; features associated with efficacy can be identified to 
      guide patient selection.

       BACKGROUND: Allergic sensitization is an important risk factor for the 
      development of atopic disease. The National Health and Nutrition Examination 
      Survey (NHANES) 2005-2006 provides the most comprehensive information on 
      IgE-mediated sensitization in the general US population. OBJECTIVE: We 
      investigated clustering, sociodemographic, and regional patterns of allergic 
      sensitization and examined risk factors associated with IgE-mediated 
      sensitization. METHODS: Data for this cross-sectional analysis were obtained from 
      NHANES 2005-2006. Participants aged 1 year or older (n = 9440) were tested for 
      serum specific IgEs (sIgEs) to inhalant and food allergens; participants 6 years 
      or older were tested for 19 sIgEs, and children aged 1 to 5 years were tested for 
      9 sIgEs. Serum samples were analyzed by using the ImmunoCAP System. Information 
      on demographics and participants' characteristics was collected by means of 
      questionnaire. RESULTS: Of the study population aged 6 years and older, 44.6% had 
      detectable sIgEs, whereas 36.2% of children aged 1 to 5 years were sensitized to 
      1 or more allergens. Allergen-specific IgEs clustered into 7 groups that might 
      have largely reflected biological cross-reactivity. Although sensitization to 
      individual allergens and allergen types showed regional variation, the overall 
      prevalence of sensitization did not differ across census regions, except in early 
      childhood. In multivariate modeling young age, male sex, non-Hispanic black 
      race/ethnicity, geographic location (census region), and reported pet avoidance 
      measures were most consistently associated with IgE-mediated sensitization. 
      CONCLUSIONS: The overall prevalence of allergic sensitization does not vary 
      across US census regions, except in early life, although allergen-specific 
      sensitization differs based on sociodemographic and regional factors. Biological 
      cross-reactivity might be an important but not the sole contributor to the 
      clustering of allergen-specific IgEs.

       BACKGROUND: Decreased 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] concentrations have been 
      associated with an increased prevalence and severity of asthma and a lower 
      response to inhaled corticosteroids. OBJECTIVE: The objective was to determine 
      the association between serum 25(OH)D concentrations and asthma prevalence, 
      severity, and response to asthma treatment. DESIGN: Secondary analyses were 
      conducted in 2 samples of adolescents 12-20 y of age: 1) NHANES 2001-2006 (n = 
      6487), a cross-sectional nationally representative sample of the US population, 
      and 2) a cohort of inner-city adolescents with asthma managed prospectively for 
      46 wk with guidelines-based therapy in the Asthma Control Evaluation (ACE; n = 
      226) trial. RESULTS: Mean (±SD) serum 25(OH)D concentrations in the NHANES and 
      ACE samples were lower in African Americans than in non-African Americans 
      (NHANES: 14.9 ± 6.5 compared with 23.0 ± 8.4 ng/mL, P &lt; 0.0001; ACE: 11.2 ± 6.9 
      compared with 15.8 ± 7.1 ng/mL, P &lt; 0.0001). In the NHANES sample, mean 
      concentrations did not differ between participants without and with asthma 
      (African Americans: 14.9 ± 6.4 compared with 15.0 ± 6.6 ng/mL, respectively, P = 
      0.87; non-African Americans: 23.0 ± 8.5 compared with 23.6 ± 8.2 ng/mL, 
      respectively, P = 0.16). In the ACE models that used either a predefined cutoff 
      (&lt;20 ng/mL) or linear regression, 25(OH)D concentrations showed either no 
      relation or minor contradictory correlations with indicators of asthma severity, 
      treatment requirements, spirometry, or atopy/inflammation. CONCLUSION: In 2 
      samples of adolescents, overall serum 25(OH)D concentrations were low and were 
      not consistently associated with the presence of asthma, multiple asthma 
      characteristics, asthma morbidity, or response to treatment. The ACE trial was 
      registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT0011441.

       BACKGROUND: Consistent performance of allergen assays is essential to ensure 
      reproducibility of exposure assessments for investigations of asthma and 
      occupational allergic disease. This study evaluated intra- and inter-laboratory 
      reproducibility of a fluorescent multiplex array, which simultaneously measures 
      eight indoor allergens in a single reaction well. METHODS: A multi-center study 
      was performed in nine laboratories in the US and Europe to determine the 
      inter-laboratory variability of an 8-plex array for dust mite, cat, dog, rat, 
      mouse and cockroach allergens. Aliquots of 151 dust extract samples were sent to 
      participating centers and analyzed by each laboratory on three separate 
      occasions. Agreement within and between laboratories was calculated by the 
      concordance correlation coefficient (CCC). RESULTS: Results were obtained for 
      over 32,000 individual allergen measurements. Levels covered a wide range for all 
      allergens from below the lower limit of detection (LLOD = 0.1-9.8 ng/ml) to 
      higher than 6800 ng/ml for all allergens except Mus m 1, which was up to 1700 
      ng/ml. Results were reproducible within as well as between laboratories. Within 
      laboratories, 94% of CCC were ≥ 0.90, and 80% of intra-laboratory results fell 
      within a 10% coefficient of variance (CV%). Results between laboratories also 
      showed highly significant positive correlations for all allergens (~0.95, 
      p&lt;0.001). Overall means of results were comparable, and inter-laboratory CV% for 
      all allergens except Rat n 1 ranged between 17.6% and 26.6%. CONCLUSION: The data 
      indicate that performance criteria for fluorescent multiplex array technology are 
      reproducible within and between laboratories. Multiplex technology provides 
      standardized and consistent allergen measurements that will streamline 
      environmental exposure assessments in allergic disease.

       Standardized studies examining environmental microbial exposure in populations at 
      risk for asthma are necessary to improve our understanding of the role this 
      factor plays in disease development. Here we describe studies aimed at developing 
      guidelines for high-resolution culture-independent microbiome profiling, using a 
      phylogenetic microarray (PhyloChip), of house dust samples in a cohort collected 
      as part of the NIH-funded Inner City Asthma Consortium (ICAC). We demonstrate 
      that though extracted DNA concentrations varied across dust samples, the majority 
      produced sufficient 16S rRNA to be profiled by the array. Comparison of array and 
      454-pyrosequencing performed in parallel on a subset of samples, illustrated that 
      increasingly deeper sequencing efforts validated greater numbers of 
      array-detected taxa. Community composition agreement across samples exhibited a 
      hierarchy in concordance, with the highest level of agreement in replicate array 
      profiles followed by samples collected from adjacent 1×1 m(2) sites in the same 
      room, adjacent sites with different sized sampling quadrants (1×1 and 2×2 m(2)), 
      different sites within homes (living and bedroom) to lowest in living room 
      samples collected from different homes. The guidelines for sample collection and 
      processing in this pilot study extend beyond PhyloChip based studies of 
      house-associated microbiota, and bear relevance for other microbiome profiling 
      approaches such as next-generation sequencing.

       BACKGROUND: Asthma severity is reflected in many aspects of the disease, 
      including impairment and future risks, particularly for exacerbations. According 
      to the Expert Panel Report 3: Guidelines for the Diagnosis and Management of 
      Asthma, however, to assess more comprehensively the severity of asthma the level 
      of current treatment needed to maintain a level of control should be included. 
      OBJECTIVE: Development and validation of a new instrument, the Composite Asthma 
      Severity Index (CASI), which can quantify disease severity by taking into account 
      impairment, risk, and the amount of medication needed to maintain control. At 
      present, there is no instrument available to measure and assess the 
      multidimensional nature of asthma. METHODS: Twenty-six established asthma 
      investigators, who are part of the National Institutes of Health-supported Inner 
      City Asthma Consortium, participated in a modified Delphi consensus process to 
      identify and weight the dimensions of asthma. Factor analysis was performed to 
      identify independent domains of asthma by using the Asthma Control Evaluation 
      trial. CASI was validated by using the Inner City Anti-IgE Therapy for Asthma 
      trial. RESULTS: CASI scores include 5 domains: day symptoms and albuterol use, 
      night symptoms and albuterol use, controller treatment, lung function measures, 
      and exacerbations. At Asthma Control Evaluation trial enrollment, CASI ranged 
      from 0 to 17, with a mean of 6.2. CASI was stable, with minimal change in 
      variance after 1 year of treatment. In external validation, CASI detected a 32% 
      larger improvement than did symptoms alone. CONCLUSION: CASI retained its 
      discriminatory ability even with low levels of symptoms reported after months of 
      guidelines-directed care. Thus, CASI has the ability to determine the level of 
      asthma severity and provide a composite clinical characterization of asthma.

       Hydroxyurea has enhanced the treatment for children with sickle cell anemia. The 
      objectives of this study were to compare perioperative transfusions and outcomes 
      for children taking hydroxyurea versus those not taking hydroxyurea. We 
      retrospectively reviewed perioperative management and outcomes for 51 children 
      with sickle cell anemia (HbSS genotype) who underwent surgery in our center 
      between January 2003 and April 2008. Of the 51 patients, 30 (59%) were taking 
      hydroxyurea and 21 (41%) were not taking hydroxyurea. Eight of 30 (27%) in the 
      hydroxyurea group were not transfused preoperatively, 12 of 30 (40%) received a 
      single transfusion and 10 of 30 (33%) received serial transfusions, compared with 
      1 of 21 (5%) children in the nonhydroxyurea group who was not transfused, 2 of 21 
      (10%) who received a single transfusion and 18 of 21 (85%) who received serial 
      transfusions or pheresis (P=0.004; for comparison across groups). One patient not 
      taking hydroxyurea developed a delayed hyperhemolytic transfusion reaction, and 2 
      children taking hydroxyurea developed acute chest syndrome. Overall, children 
      taking hydroxyurea had substantially fewer transfusions compared with children 
      not taking hydroxyurea. Both groups of children had a low complication rate. 
      Further research should be done to optimize perioperative management of children 
      taking hydroxyurea.

       BACKGROUND: Studies have demonstrated that IgE-binding cross-reactive epitopes 
      between shrimp, cockroach, and house dust mite tropomyosins can account for the 
      presence of detectable IgE to shrimp in patients with cockroach and dust mite 
      allergies. OBJECTIVE: We investigated the correlation between IgE-mediated 
      sensitization to shrimp, cockroach, and dust mite in relation to allergen 
      exposure in inner-city children. METHODS: Five hundred four serum samples from 
      the National Cooperative Inner-City Asthma Study were evaluated for specific IgE 
      to shrimp, and the results were compared with specific IgE to cockroach 
      (Blattella germanica) and dust mite (Dermatophagoides farinae). Associations 
      between IgE sensitization to these allergens and environmental exposures were 
      determined. RESULTS: There was a strong positive correlation between shrimp, 
      cockroach, and dust mite IgE levels. High exposure to cockroach (B germanica) in 
      the home, particularly in the bedroom and television room, was significantly 
      correlated with higher shrimp and cockroach IgE levels. In contrast, high 
      exposure to dust mite in the home was highly correlated with IgE levels to D 
      farinae but not with shrimp IgE levels. There is a synergistic relationship 
      between cockroach IgE levels and exposure in predicting shrimp IgE levels. 
      CONCLUSIONS: For children with evidence of IgE-mediated sensitization to 
      cockroach and shrimp, having high exposure to cockroach in the home can 
      contribute to higher shrimp IgE levels, which might not correlate with clinical 
      reactivity. Further patient evaluations with clinical histories of shrimp 
      exposure and reactions, as well as oral food challenges, would have to be 
      performed to confirm these findings.

       Hydroxyurea is a safe and efficacious medication for children with sickle cell 
      disease (SCD). Our objective was to compare health-related quality of life (HRQL) 
      between children taking hydroxyurea and those not taking hydroxyurea. We 
      conducted a retrospective cohort study of children with SCD who had completed the 
      PedsQL 4.0 at Duke University Medical Center or the Midwest Sickle Cell Center. 
      Our primary outcome was HRQL in children receiving hydroxyurea therapy compared 
      with those not receiving hydroxyurea. One hundred and ninety-one children with 
      SCD were included in the study. Children in the hydroxyurea group had higher 
      self-reported Total PedsQL median scores than children in the no hydroxyurea 
      group (P=0.04). Child self-reported physical functioning scores were 
      significantly higher for children in the hydroxyurea group (P=0.01). In 
      conclusion, children with SCD who received hydroxyurea therapy reported better 
      overall HRQL and better physical HRQL than children who did not receive this 
      therapy despite disease severity. Further research assessing the impact of 
      hydroxyurea therapy on HRQL, such as prospective assessment over time, would aid 
      in our understanding of the effectiveness of hydroxyurea for individual children. 
      Ultimately, this may aid in decreasing the barriers to the use of hydroxyurea.

       BACKGROUND: Research has underscored the effects of exposure and sensitization to 
      allergens on the severity of asthma in inner-city children. It has also revealed 
      the limitations of environmental remediation and guidelines-based therapy in 
      achieving greater disease control. METHODS: We enrolled inner-city children, 
      adolescents, and young adults with persistent asthma in a randomized, 
      double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial at multiple centers to 
      assess the effectiveness of omalizumab, as compared with placebo, when added to 
      guidelines-based therapy. The trial was conducted for 60 weeks, and the primary 
      outcome was symptoms of asthma. RESULTS: Among 419 participants who underwent 
      randomization (at which point 73% had moderate or severe disease), omalizumab as 
      compared with placebo significantly reduced the number of days with asthma 
      symptoms, from 1.96 to 1.48 days per 2-week interval, a 24.5% decrease (P&lt;0.001). 
      Similarly, omalizumab significantly reduced the proportion of participants who 
      had one or more exacerbations from 48.8 to 30.3% (P&lt;0.001). Improvements occurred 
      with omalizumab despite reductions in the use of inhaled glucocorticoids and 
      long-acting beta-agonists. CONCLUSIONS: When added to a regimen of 
      guidelines-based therapy for inner-city children, adolescents, and young adults, 
      omalizumab further improved asthma control, nearly eliminated seasonal peaks in 
      exacerbations, and reduced the need for other medications to control asthma. 
      (Funded by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and 
      Novartis; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00377572.).

       BACKGROUND: The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 
      2005-2006 was the first population-based study to investigate levels of serum 
      total and allergen-specific IgE in the general US population. OBJECTIVE: We 
      estimated the prevalence of allergy-related outcomes and examined relationships 
      between serum IgE levels and these outcomes in a representative sample of the US 
      population. METHODS: Data for this cross-sectional analysis were obtained from 
      NHANES 2005-2006. Study subjects aged 6 years and older (n = 8086) had blood 
      taken for measurement of total IgE and 19 specific IgE levels against common 
      aeroallergens, including Alternaria alternata, Aspergillus fumigatus, Bermuda 
      grass, birch, oak, ragweed, Russian thistle, rye grass, cat dander, cockroach, 
      dog dander, dust mite (Dermatophagoides farinae and Dermatophagoides 
      pteronyssinus), mouse and rat urine proteins, and selected foods (egg white, 
      cow's milk, peanut, and shrimp). Serum samples were analyzed for total and 
      allergen-specific IgE by using the Pharmacia CAP System. Information on 
      allergy-related outcomes and demographics was collected by questionnaire. 
      RESULTS: In NHANES 2005-2006, 6.6% reported current hay fever, and 23.5% had 
      current allergies. Allergy-related outcomes increased with increasing total IgE 
      levels (adjusted odds ratios for a 10-fold increase in total IgE level of 1.86 
      [95% CI, 1.44-2.41] for hay fever and 1.64 [95% CI, 1.41-1.91] for allergies). 
      Increased levels of plant-, pet-, and mold-specific IgE contributed independently 
      to allergy-related symptoms. The greatest increase in odds was observed for hay 
      fever and plant-specific IgE (adjusted odds ratio, 4.75; 95% CI, 3.83-5.88). 
      CONCLUSION: In the US population self-reported allergy symptoms are most 
      consistently associated with increased levels of plant-, pet-, and mold-specific 
      IgE.

       BACKGROUND: Obesity and asthma prevalence have both risen among children over the 
      last several decades, and research efforts increasingly suggest that obesity is 
      associated with asthma. Some, but not all, studies have shown that the effect of 
      obesity on asthma is stronger among nonatopic individuals than among those with 
      atopy. Systemic inflammation may be a factor in this relationship. OBJECTIVE: To 
      examine the association of obesity with atopic and nonatopic asthma among U.S. 
      children and to assess the role of C-reactive protein. DESIGN: Nationally 
      representative data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 
      (NHANES) were used to examine the relationship of weight to current asthma using 
      logistic regression. Overweight was defined as ≥ 85th percentile of body mass 
      index (BMI)-for-age and obesity was defined as ≥ 95th percentile of BMI-for-age. 
      The presence of at least one positive allergen-specific immunoglobulin E (IgE) 
      was used to stratify the relationship by atopic status in 2005-2006 data (n = 
      3387). Setting and Participants. Stratified, multistage probability sampling was 
      used to identify survey participants. This analysis includes children ages 2-19 
      (n = 16,074) from the 1999-2006 NHANES who have information on BMI and current 
      asthma. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Self-report of doctor-diagnosed current asthma. 
      RESULTS: Obesity was significantly related to current asthma among children and 
      adolescents (odds ratio [OR]: 1.68, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.33, 2.12). 
      The association was stronger in nonatopic children (OR: 2.46, 95% CI: 1.21, 5.02) 
      than in atopic children (OR: 1.34, 95% CI: 0.70, 2.57) (interaction p value = 
      .09). C-reactive protein levels were associated with current asthma in nonatopic 
      children, but not after adjusting for BMI. CONCLUSION: Excess weight in children 
      is associated with higher rates of asthma, especially asthma that is not 
      accompanied by allergic disease.

       BACKGROUND: There is an association between adiposity and asthma prevalence, but 
      the relationship to asthma control is unclear. OBJECTIVES: We sought to 
      understand the relationships among adiposity, sex, and asthma control in 
      inner-city adolescents with asthma. METHODS: We prospectively followed 368 
      adolescents with moderate-to-severe asthma (ages 12-20 years) living in 10 urban 
      areas for 1 year. Asthma symptoms and exacerbations were recorded, and pulmonary 
      function and exhaled nitric oxide levels were measured every 6 weeks. Adiposity 
      measures (body mass index [BMI] and dual-energy X-ray absorptiometric scans) were 
      made, and blood was collected for measurement of allergy markers, adiponectin, 
      leptin, TNF-alpha, IL-6, and C-reactive protein levels. RESULTS: More than 60% of 
      female subjects and 50% of male subjects were above the 85th percentile of BMI 
      for age. Higher BMI was associated with more symptom days (R = 0.18, P = .02) and 
      exacerbations (R = 0.18, P = .06) among female subjects only. Adiponectin was 
      inversely related to asthma symptoms (R = -0.18, P &lt; .05) and exacerbations (R = 
      -0.20, P &lt; .05) and positively with FEV(1)/forced vital capacity ratio (R = 0.15, 
      P &lt; .05) in male subjects only independent of body size. There was no 
      relationship between adiposity or adipokines and total IgE levels, blood 
      eosinophil counts, and exhaled nitric oxide levels. Dual-energy X-ray 
      absorptiometry provided little additional value in relating adiposity to asthma 
      outcome in this population of adolescents. CONCLUSION: Adiposity is associated 
      with poorer asthma control in female subjects. Adiponectin is associated with 
      improved asthma control in male subjects.

       RATIONALE: Stress-elicited disruption of immunity begins in utero. OBJECTIVES: 
      Associations among prenatal maternal stress and cord blood mononuclear cell 
      (CBMC) cytokine responses were prospectively examined in the Urban Environment 
      and Childhood Asthma Study (n = 557 families). METHODS: Prenatal maternal stress 
      included financial hardship, difficult life circumstances, community violence, 
      and neighborhood/block and housing conditions. Factor analysis produced latent 
      variables representing three contexts: individual stressors and ecological-level 
      strains (housing problems and neighborhood problems), which were combined to 
      create a composite cumulative stress indicator. CBMCs were incubated with innate 
      (lipopolysaccharide, polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid, cytosine-phosphate-guanine 
      dinucleotides, peptidoglycan) and adaptive (tetanus, dust mite, cockroach) 
      stimuli, respiratory syncytial virus, phytohemagglutinin, or medium alone. 
      Cytokines were measured using multiplex ELISAs. Using linear regression, 
      associations among increasing cumulative stress and cytokine responses were 
      examined, adjusting for sociodemographic factors, parity, season of birth, 
      maternal asthma and steroid use, and potential pathway variables (prenatal 
      smoking, birth weight for gestational age). MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: 
      Mothers were primarily minorities (Black [71%], Latino [19%]) with an income less 
      than $15,000 (69%). Mothers with the highest cumulative stress were older and 
      more likely to have asthma and deliver lower birth weight infants. Higher 
      prenatal stress was related to increased IL-8 production after microbial (CpG, 
      PIC, peptidoglycan) stimuli and increased tumor necrosis factor-alpha to 
      microbial stimuli (CpG, PIC). In the adaptive panel, higher stress was associated 
      with increased IL-13 after dust mite stimulation and reduced 
      phytohemagglutinin-induced IFN-gamma. CONCLUSIONS: Prenatal stress was associated 
      with altered innate and adaptive immune responses in CBMCs. Stress-induced 
      perinatal immunomodulation may impact the expression of allergic disease in these 
      children.

       OBJECTIVES: To assess adherence to hydroxyurea therapy in children with sickle 
      cell anemia (SCA), evaluate the association between adherence and hematologic 
      profile, and identify barriers and facilitators of adherence. STUDY DESIGN: 
      Children with SCA (n=75) receiving hydroxyurea were recruited for a 
      single-institution cross-sectional study. The primary outcome was association 
      between treatment adherence and percent fetal hemoglobin (HbF). RESULTS: Good 
      adherence was estimated at 82% with visual analog scale, 84% with Morisky score, 
      85% with medical provider report, 77% with clinic visits, and 49% on the basis of 
      pharmacy refills. Increase in HbF was moderately associated with good adherence 
      as measured with the parent/proxy Morisky score (r=-0.39; 95% CI, -0.58-0.17; P &lt; 
      .01) and prescription refills (r=0.39; 95% CI, 0.16-0.57; P &lt; .01). The number of 
      pharmacy refills and the Morisky score explained 23% of the variation in HbF 
      response. CONCLUSIONS: Adherence was &gt; or =75% with 4 of 5 measures. Pharmacy 
      refills and the Modified Morisky Scale may be used to identify children at high 
      risk for poor response because of non-adherence and children with good adherence 
      with poor response because of individual pharmacodynamics. Future research should 
      prospectively compare adherence measures and evaluate methods to improve 
      treatment adherence.

       BACKGROUND: Cholesterol exerts complex effects on inflammation. There has been 
      little investigation of whether serum cholesterol is associated with asthma, an 
      inflammatory airways disease with great public health impact. OBJECTIVE: To 
      determine relationships between levels of 3 serum cholesterol measures (total 
      cholesterol [TC], high-density lipoprotein cholesterol [HDL-C], and non-HDL-C) 
      and asthma/wheeze in a sample representative of the US population. METHODS: 
      Cross-sectional study of 7005 participants age &gt;or=6 years from the 2005 to 2006 
      National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. RESULTS: Serum TC and non-HDL-C 
      were lower in patients with current asthma than in subjects without current 
      asthma in the overall population (TC, 188.5 vs 192.2 mg/dL; non-HDL-C, 133.9 vs 
      137.7 mg/dL; P &lt; .05 for both), whereas HDL-C was not different. Adjusted odds 
      ratios (ORs) from multivariate logistic regression per 1-SD increase of TC and 
      non-HDL-C for current asthma were 0.92 (95% CI, 0.86-0.98) and 0.91 (95% CI, 
      0.85-0.98), respectively. On racial/ethnic stratification, these relationships 
      reflect marked reductions unique to Mexican Americans (MAs; TC, 171.4 vs 189.3 
      mg/dL; P &lt; .001; OR, 0.62; 95% CI, 0.48-0.80; non-HDL-C, 119.8 vs 137.9 mg/dL; P 
      &lt; .001; OR, 0.62; 95% CI, 0.48-0.79). Among MAs, the adjusted OR for wheeze 
      requiring medical attention was 0.57 (95% CI, 0.43-0.75) for TC and 0.53 (95% CI, 
      0.33-0.85) for non-HDL-C. Relationships between cholesterol and asthma/wheeze 
      were independent of body mass index and serum C-reactive protein, and similar 
      between atopic and nonatopic participants. CONCLUSION: Serum TC and non-HDL-C are 
      inversely related to asthma in the US population, chiefly reflecting a 
      relationship among MAs.

       OBJECTIVE: This study examined externalizing and internalizing behavior problem 
      trajectories as a function of both iron status in infancy and infant 
      characteristics. METHODS: A sample of 185 healthy Costa Rican children who either 
      had chronic, severe iron deficiency or good iron status in infancy were followed 
      for 19 years. RESULTS: Mother ratings of externalizing and internalizing problems 
      from age 5 to 11-14 years were higher for the chronic iron deficiency group 
      compared with those with the good iron status. Iron deficiency in infancy 
      predicted persisting externalizing problems over this time period, especially for 
      those with low physical activity in infancy. Beyond adolescence, youth in the 
      chronic iron deficiency group did not report more problems than those in the good 
      iron group. CONCLUSIONS: These findings underscore the importance of considering 
      infant iron status along with early behavioral characteristics to better identify 
      those children at greatest risk for persisting long-term behavior problems.

       BACKGROUND: The inability to measure IgE-based sensitivity to all allergens has 
      limited our understanding of what portion of asthma is related to IgE. Total IgE 
      measurement can potentially overcome this limitation. OBJECTIVE: We sought to 
      determine the association between total IgE levels and asthma. METHODS: The 
      National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2005-2006 examined a 
      representative sample of the US population 6 years of age and older. RESULTS: The 
      median total IgE level was 40.8 kU/L (interquartile range, 15.5-114 kU/L). Total 
      IgE levels varied with age, sex, race/ethnicity, serum cotinine level, body size, 
      and socioeconomic status. The prevalence of current asthma was 8.8%. The 
      prevalence of atopy was 42.5%, as defined by 15 specific IgEs. The adjusted odds 
      ratio (OR) for asthma with a 10-fold increase in total IgE level was 2.18 (95% 
      CI, 1.66-2.87). Total IgE level predicted asthma only among atopic subjects (OR, 
      2.41; 95% CI, 1.62-3.60) and not among nonatopic subjects (OR, 1.11; 95% CI, 
      0.72-1.71; interaction P = .005). Among atopic subjects, the association between 
      total IgE level and asthma became stronger as the number of positive specific IgE 
      test results increased. Asthma was present at even the lowest levels of total 
      IgE, regardless of atopic status. Approximately 92% of atopic subjects were 
      identified by 6 specific IgEs, but to increase the identification to more than 
      99% required 11 specific IgEs. CONCLUSION: Total IgE levels are associated with 
      asthma only among persons who have positive results for at least 1 
      allergen-specific IgE. Asthma independent of IgE is not uncommon in the US 
      population. The complete identification of atopic subjects in a population 
      requires a large panel of allergen-specific IgEs.

       BACKGROUND: With the expanding effort to provide guidelines-based therapy to 
      adolescents with asthma, attention must be directed to evaluating which factors 
      predict future asthma control when guidelines-based management is applied. 
      OBJECTIVE: We evaluated the role of fraction of exhaled nitric oxide in parts per 
      billion, markers of allergic sensitization, airway inflammation, and measures of 
      asthma severity in determining future risk of asthma symptoms and exacerbations 
      in adolescents and young adults participating in the Asthma Control Evaluation 
      study. METHODS: Five hundred forty-six inner-city residents, ages 12 through 20 
      years, with persistent asthma were extensively evaluated at study entry for 
      predictors of future symptoms and exacerbations over the subsequent 46 weeks, 
      during which guidelines-based, optimal asthma management was offered. Baseline 
      measurements included fraction of exhaled nitric oxide in parts per billion, 
      total IgE, allergen-specific IgE, allergen skin test reactivity, asthma symptoms, 
      lung function, peripheral blood eosinophils, and, for a subset, airway 
      hyperresponsiveness and sputum eosinophils. RESULTS: The baseline characteristics 
      we examined accounted for only a small portion of the variance for future maximum 
      symptom days and exacerbations--11.4% and 12.6%, respectively. Future 
      exacerbations were somewhat predicted by asthma symptoms, albuterol use, previous 
      exacerbations, and lung function, whereas maximum symptom days were predicted, 
      also to a modest extent, by symptoms, albuterol use, and previous exacerbations, 
      but not lung function. CONCLUSION: Our findings demonstrate that the usual 
      predictors of future disease activity have little predictive power when applied 
      to a highly adherent population with persistent asthma that is receiving 
      guidelines-based care. Thus, new predictors need to be identified that will be 
      able to measure the continued fluctuation of disease that persists in highly 
      adherent, well-treated populations such as the one studied.

       BACKGROUND: The prevalence of both obesity and allergic disease has increased 
      among children over the last several decades. Previous literature on the 
      relationship between obesity and allergic disease has been inconsistent. It is 
      not known whether systemic inflammation could be a factor in this relationship. 
      OBJECTIVE: We sought to examine the association of obesity with total and 
      allergen-specific IgE levels and allergy symptoms in US children and adolescents 
      and to assess the role of C-reactive protein. METHODS: National Health and 
      Nutrition Examination Survey data from 2005-2006 included measurement of total 
      and allergen-specific IgE levels and allergy questions. Overweight was defined as 
      the 85th or greater to less than the 95th percentile of body mass index for age, 
      and obesity was defined as the 95th percentile or greater. Linear and logistic 
      regression models were used to examine the association of weight categories with 
      total IgE levels, atopy, allergen-specific IgE levels, and allergy symptoms among 
      youth aged 2 to 19 years. RESULTS: Geometric mean total IgE levels were higher 
      among obese (geometric mean ratio, 1.31; 95% CI, 1.10-1.57) and overweight 
      (ratio, 1.25; 95% CI, 1.02-1.54) children than among normal-weight children. The 
      odds ratio (OR) for atopy (any positive specific IgE measurement) was increased 
      in the obese children compared with that seen in those of normal weight; this 
      association was driven largely by allergic sensitization to foods (OR for atopy, 
      1.26 [95% CI, 1.03-1.55]; OR for food sensitization, 1.59 [95% CI, 1.28-1.98]). 
      C-reactive protein levels were associated with total IgE levels, atopy, and food 
      sensitization. CONCLUSIONS: Obesity might be a contributor to the increased 
      prevalence of allergic disease in children, particularly food allergy. Systemic 
      inflammation might play a role in the development of allergic disease.

       BACKGROUND: Hydroxyurea improves laboratory parameters and prevents acute 
      clinical complications of sickle cell anemia (SCA) in children and adults, but 
      its effects on organ function remain incompletely defined. METHODS: To assess the 
      safety and efficacy of hydroxyurea in young children with SCA and to 
      prospectively assess kidney and brain function, 14 young children (mean age 35 
      months) received hydroxyurea at a mean maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of 28 
      mg/kg/day. RESULTS: After a mean of 25 months, expected laboratory effects 
      included significant increases in hemoglobin, MCV and %HbF along with significant 
      decreases in reticulocytes, absolute neutrophil count, and bilirubin. There was 
      no significant increase in glomerular filtration rate by DTPA clearance or 
      Schwartz estimate. Mean transcranial Doppler (TCD) velocity changes were -25.6 
      cm/sec (P &lt; 0.01) and -26.8 cm/sec (P &lt; 0.05) in the right and left MCA vessels, 
      respectively. At study exit, no child had conditional or abnormal TCD values, and 
      none developed brain ischemic lesions or vasculopathy progression by MRI/MRA. 
      Growth and neurocognitive scores were preserved and Impact-on-Family scores 
      improved. CONCLUSIONS: These pilot data indicate hydroxyurea at MTD is 
      well-tolerated by both children and families, and may prevent chronic organ 
      damage in young children with SCA.

       BACKGROUND: Cryopreservation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells has been used 
      to preserve and standardize immunologic measurements for multicenter studies, 
      however, effects of cryopreservation on cytokine responses are incompletely 
      understood. In designing immunologic studies for a new multicenter birth cohort 
      study of childhood asthma, we performed a series of experiments to determine the 
      effects of two different methods of cryopreservation on the cytokine responses of 
      cord and peripheral blood mononuclear cells. RESULTS: Paired samples of PBMC were 
      processed freshly, or after cryopreservation in a Nalgene container (NC) or a 
      controlled-rate freezer (CRF). Although there were some differences between the 
      methods, cryopreservation inhibited PHA-induced IL-10 secretion and Der f 
      1-induced IL-2 secretion, and augmented PHA-induced IL-2 secretion and 
      spontaneous secretion of TNF-alpha. In separate experiments, NC cryopreservation 
      inhibited secretion of several cytokines (IL-13, IL-10, IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha) by 
      PHA-stimulated cord blood mononuclear cells. With the exception of PHA-induced 
      IL-13, results from fresh and cryopreserved cord blood samples were not 
      significantly correlated. Finally, in reproducibility studies involving 
      processing of identical cell samples in up to 4 separate laboratories, variances 
      in cytokine responses of fresh cells stimulated at separate sites did not exceed 
      those in cryopreserved cells stimulated at a central site. CONCLUSION: 
      Collectively, these studies indicate that cryopreservation can affect mononuclear 
      cell cytokine response profiles, and that IL-10 secretion and antigen-induced 
      responses may be especially vulnerable. These studies also demonstrate that 
      mononuclear cell responses can be standardized for performance in a small number 
      of laboratories for multicenter studies, and underscore the importance of 
      measuring reproducibility and of testing whether cryopreservation techniques 
      alter specific immunologic outcomes.

       This longitudinal study of the effects of iron deficiency in infancy assessed 
      motor development over time in 185 healthy Costa Rican children who varied in 
      iron status at 12-23 months. Longitudinal analyses (hierarchical linear modeling) 
      used the Bayley Psychomotor Index before and both 1 week and 3 months after iron 
      treatment in infancy and the Bruninks-Oseretsky Test of Motor Proficiency - long 
      form at 5 years and short form at 11-14 years. Children with chronic severe iron 
      deficiency in infancy had lower motor scores at the beginning of the study and a 
      lower but parallel trajectory for motor scores through early adolescence. Thus, 
      there was no evidence of catch-up in motor development, despite iron therapy in 
      infancy that corrected iron deficiency anemia in all cases.

       The iron status of African-American infants continues to be subject to debate. We 
      characterized the iron status of 198 9-month-old inner-city infants (94% fed 
      iron-fortified formula) using a comprehensive panel of measures and assessing 
      lead and inflammation markers. The proportion with iron deficiency was calculated 
      based on three approaches (&gt; or = 2 abnormal iron measures with or without anemia 
      for MCV model--NHANES II, ferritin model--NHANES III, or Sweden/Honduras study) 
      and a promising new measure-body iron, calculated from ferritin and transferrin 
      receptor (TfR). There were no sex differences for any iron measure. Hb &lt; 110 g/l 
      was observed in 25%; Hb &lt; or = 105 g/l in 10.1%. Free erythrocyte protoporphyrin 
      (FEP) values were elevated without elevated lead concentrations or an 
      inflammatory response: mean FEP = 86.6 microg/dl red blood cells [75.5 
      micromol/mol heme]; 52.3% were &gt; 80 microg/dl (1.42 micromol/l), almost half of 
      which were accompanied by a second abnormal iron measure. The estimated 
      prevalence of iron deficiency was 14.4, 5.3, and 2.5% for the MCV model, ferritin 
      model, and Sweden/Honduras cutoffs, respectively, and 4.1% for body iron &lt; 0 
      mg/kg. Regulation of iron storage is immature at &lt; 1 year of age, making 
      estimates of iron deficiency that depend on ferritin, including body iron, 
      suspect in this age period. Thus, the "true" prevalence of iron deficiency could 
      not be established with confidence due to major differences in the results, 
      depending on the guidelines used. Functional indicators of poor iron status in 
      young infants are urgently needed.

       Serum prolactin may reflect CNS dopaminergic function. Because iron deficiency 
      (ID) alters brain dopamine in rats, serum prolactin levels were previously 
      investigated in infants with varied iron status. High serum prolactin levels 
      correlated with behaviors typical of chronic ID. The objective of this study was 
      to determine the effect of infant iron status on serum prolactin levels after a 
      stressor in early adolescence. One hundred fifty-nine of 191 children enrolled in 
      infancy (chronic ID, n = 46; good iron comparison group, n = 113) had serum 
      prolactin measurements after catheter placement at 11-14 y of age. Serum 
      prolactin levels were compared by sex, pubertal status and infant iron status and 
      the pattern of change over time was compared by infant iron status controlling 
      for pubertal stage and background factors. Males and less mature adolescents had 
      lower serum prolactin concentrations than females and more mature adolescents. 
      Controlling for these factors, the serum prolactin response pattern differed 
      significantly by infant iron status. Serum prolactin declined earlier for the 
      chronic ID group. In conclusion, an altered serum prolactin response pattern was 
      observed 10 y after chronic ID in infancy and may suggest a long-lasting effect 
      of ID on the regulation of prolactin.

       OBJECTIVE: Breast-feeding is associated with better child development outcomes, 
      but uncertainty remains primarily due to the close relationship between 
      breast-feeding and socioeconomic status. This study assesses the issue in a low 
      socioeconomic status sample where breast-feeding was close to universal. METHODS: 
      Seven hundred eighty-four Chilean children were followed longitudinally from 
      infancy. All but four were initially breastfed, 40% nursed beyond 12 months, and 
      infant growth was normal. Child development was assessed at 5(1/2) years by a 
      cognitive, language, and motor test battery. The duration of breast-feeding as 
      the sole milk source was analyzed as a continuous variable, adjusting for a 
      comprehensive set of background factors. RESULTS: The relationship between 
      breast-feeding and most 5(1/2)-year developmental outcomes was nonlinear, with 
      poorer outcome for periods of breast-feeding as the sole milk source for &lt;2 
      months or &gt;8 months--statistically significant for language, motor, and one 
      comprehensive cognitive test, with a suggestive trend for IQ. CONCLUSIONS: The 
      observed nonlinear relationships showed that breast-feeding as the sole milk 
      source for &lt;2 months or &gt;8 months, compared with 2-8 months, was associated with 
      poorer development in this sample. The latter finding requires replication in 
      other samples where long breast-feeding is common and socioeconomic status is 
      relatively homogeneous.

       BACKGROUND: Iron deficiency anemia (IDA) is relatively common in the third 
      trimester of pregnancy, but causal associations with low birth weight and 
      compromised neonatal iron status are difficult to establish in human populations. 
      OBJECTIVE: The objective was to determine the effects of diet-induced IDA on 
      intrauterine growth and neonatal iron status in an appropriate animal model for 
      third-trimester IDA in women. DESIGN: Hematologic and iron-status measures, 
      pregnancy outcomes, and fetal and neonatal evaluations were compared between 
      pregnant rhesus monkeys (n = 14) fed a diet containing 10 microg Fe/g diet from 
      the time of pregnancy detection (gestation days 28-30) and controls (n = 24) fed 
      100 microg Fe/g diet. RESULTS: By the third trimester, 79% of the iron-deprived 
      dams and 29% of the control monkeys had a hemoglobin concentration &lt;11 g/dL. 
      There were also significant group differences in hematocrit, mean corpuscular 
      volume, transferrin saturation, serum ferritin, and serum iron. At birth, the 
      newborns of monkeys iron-deprived during pregnancy had significantly lower 
      hemoglobin, mean corpuscular volume, and mean corpuscular hemoglobin values and a 
      lower ratio of erythroid to total colony-forming units in bone marrow than did 
      the control newborns. Pregnancy weight gain did not differ significantly between 
      the iron-deprived and control dams, and the fetuses and newborns of the 
      iron-deprived dams were not growth retarded relative to the controls. Gestation 
      length, the number of stillbirths, and neonatal neurobehavioral test scores did 
      not differ significantly by diet group. CONCLUSION: These data indicate that an 
      inadequate intake of iron from the diet during pregnancy in rhesus monkeys can 
      lead to compromised hematologic status of the neonate without indications of 
      growth retardation or impaired neurologic function at birth.